[Music]
i hope you guys enjoyed the episode
brought to you by our sponsor blinkist
go to blinkist.com impact theory to get
off a blinkist premium membership and a
seven day free trial all right enjoy the
episode
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with somebody
i find utterly fascinating his name is
martin
lindstrom martin welcome to the show
thank you and thank you for inviting me
dude thank you for coming on i am really
fascinated with how you think i think
there's two
big things we're going to talk about
today and that is obviously the core
topic of your new book ministry of
common sense we're going to talk about
common sense
but the thing that i didn't see coming
that i want to start with uh
is how insightful you are around
disruption
and how people can leverage that but
before
you tell us that give us like a quick
snapshot you are so hard to encapsulate
i'm curious to see how you explain
yourself
um i explain myself as a very curious
person which are always challenging
things around myself
i'm very observant and that means i see
small details most people don't see
and i see huge opportunity in them all
the time and once i fall in love with
one of those small details
i run like hell until it become real and
right now it seems like your primary
focus focus is twofold you're obviously
a best-selling author multiple times
over but you're also a very active
consultant for some of the biggest
companies on the planet
so just to give people a little bit of
context in terms of how much time
you spend in people's homes watching
consumer behavior sort
of in the wild which i find really
interesting and then taking those little
observations and writing about them
so okay back to disruption i think many
people will see it as a catastrophic
moment it'd be very easy
to contextualize what we're all going
through now here at the end of 2020
as catastrophic but in that disruption
you see opportunity
how absolutely i see opportunities
everywhere
i mean i'll explain a story i was in
sydney in australia during the pandemic
and
one day i noticed this old ladies he
approached a stranger's dog and started
to pet it
and i never really thought about that
before but it's very
rare you see that happening guess what
two days later exactly the same happened
and i realized that is what i call a
small
data a piece of small data so here's a
theory tom
theory is very simple we're all out of
balances and the more we
out of balance it it represents an
opportunity for a new brand a new
product
or a new need and what we know today is
that those are the balances you see in
how people behave
and of course the reason why i noticed a
lot of people were starting to pet their
dogs or whatever there was
was because we had a really strong need
for a tactile sensation
and guess what what has happened over
the last six months has really been
the entire planet buying more pets pet
sales has increased with
350 percent over the last
six months which gives you an indication
of what's going on so
the the whole code with 19 on one hand
of course is a disaster for a lot of
people and i feel so bad for them
but it's also a huge opportunity to see
new opportunity no
seeing new business opportunities see
new ways of living
so i do actually see this as a wake-up
call and i just spoke with one of my
clients the other day the president from
lowe's
i said to him so what's your view about
this and he said listen
those people who do not get it those
people
which did not change because of covet 19
they simply did not get the message the
message is you have to change right now
and that's exactly my
view this is the wake up call for you
and i to change the way we behave and
what we do right but how do we do that
and that's that is the thing i think so
many people listening to this
are in sort of a state of panic they're
closing down they're not
able to see those opportunities and your
mind strikes me as
you're you're in a ridiculously small
handful of people i've ever encountered
in my life and i do not put myself in
that that camp
who are really quickly able to see
um a unique path through something that
other people don't see so
if we all embrace okay we have to change
the world just changed too quickly for
us to ignore
how do we like in whatever sort of given
industry we're in
how do we find those new opportunities
well it comes back to the word empathy
which is going to be in my opinion a
huge
word over the next many years empathy is
the ability to put yourself in the shoes
of another person and feel what that
other person is feeling
now increasingly in our society we're
losing empathy in fact a recent study is
showing
that empathy levels in the united states
has dropped 50 percent of the last
decade
alone some of the reasons uh is among
others that we are so obsessed with
looking at ourselves in that little
stem sized photo on the screen we're
doing these twitter messages and we
explain
we express everything we have in our
heart in 100 plus characters
it's really is deep information we're
talking about here and of course that
means we become much more shallow
and the world is centered around us so
the first thing you should do is to put
yourself in the shoes of others and
start to see the world from their point
of view
and let me give you two examples of that
one of the things i've done is
for example to be blind for a week
i literally turned blind and i started
to team up with blind people to just
walk around the blind
eyes i did yeah for a week
and to see the world through a blind
person's eyes
not because i wanted to be a smartass
here
but because i wanted to understand how
that changes the way we smell
the way we hear the way we taste and the
way we touch
because what we know today in all sorts
of studies is if you suppress
one of your senses you actually increase
the strength of the other senses
another thing i did just recently was
when saudi arabia
i worked a lot with salary between to
push
the right for women driving as you know
it's a crazy kingdom
women has not been allowed to drive
until two years ago and it's something
i've been pushing extraordinary hard for
so one of the things i did was to dress
up as a woman
wear a burger and actually behave like a
woman for
three or four days to understand this
how
women are suppressed in the local
community and what holds them back from
getting a driver license because that's
a huge problem
they're now allowed to drive but they
don't know submit for a driver license
so by feeling that pressure walking
through a supermarket
and seeing the stairs from other people
really gave me a strong sense of what's
going on
and so here's my advice we
become blind when we see the world from
one
point of view it's in german called
culture brilliant
which is cultured glasses and we
basically just see things through our
own lens
and that means we don't see
opportunities but if you're able to see
through another person's eyes you will
immediately see that gap
which is representing an opportunity for
a new brand a new service or a new
product right
and how do you think about it for
somebody who is just a
normal person they don't own their own
company they're going to work every day
they don't control whether the
innovation happens in the company
how do they deal with that well it's
exactly the same methodology
you need to ask yourself how does the
world see
you what are you actually standing for
what what is what is the things you want
to be well known for
um a good way of doing that in my
opinion is really to
um to use a methodology i've used for
many years
if i take if i go into the corporate
world and i take a word
i take a car brand for example let's
take a car brand which stands for one
word the word is safety
let's say then i'm pretty sure most
people will say volvo
if i take the word search people will
say
google if i say tom
what would the word be or if i say
martin what is the word
and one of the things i think people
quite often are losing
is the ability to focus on what you
really want to stand for
and why is that so useful it's useless
because it helps you
not just to say yes but most importantly
to say
no and in this world which is so
competitive where it's so difficult to
stand out from the crowd it's so
difficult
also to find out what should i do next
where should i focus my energy both my
internal energy but my external energy
you need to have a guiding light and my
recommendation to many people is to say
find one word you want to be navigated
by
and then build a space around that
without confirming or reaffirming that
focus
and once you do that you know what it
becomes a wonderful exercise because
then you know
when you're doing a certain action
that's actually not what i should do
that's not what i want to stand for you
know we constantly feel
guilty but if that word gives you
permission
to do what you actually love doing then
you don't feel guilty
but if that word does not give you
permission there is a reason why
and then you have to make up your your
your life for a second right
so that is a good way of doing it and
the best way of finding that word
is basically to ask others and to see
what do they feel you stand for and you
would be surprised
to learn that what you stand for and
what other people feel you stand for
quite often
is not aligned that's really interesting
what do you say to people
then who and by the way i know you have
a whole thing about the word interesting
and i promise you i use it differently
than most americans i actually am
interested
um you might mean what what do you say
to people who
are like distressed by yo i thought my
word was this this is how i thought
people were perceiving me
and i'm actually being perceived in y
way and it may not even be negative but
just the gap between how they see
themselves and how people perceive them
is
they don't like that is there a process
well the first of all it's not their
fault it's your fault and i mean
obviously either you had to come to
terms with what you stand first you have
to change it there's only two options
right
um no i feel you know
thought he said for you know back then
when he was producing his cars he said
nothing is difficult as long as you
break it down to small steps
it may be you can't change everything
every day to a dramatic
shift in in your focus but maybe you
could take small steps which can help
you to adopt your new behavioral chains
in your life um so from my point of view
and i'm sure you're
you're aware of this i felt for a while
that i was losing my creativity i define
creativity as the ability to combine two
ordinary things in a new way
and i slowly felt it was slipping away
and that's one of my key focus points
so i started to mat down my day
from the very morning to the very
evening and try to create a curve
to understand where am i most creative
and where i'm least creative
and i was so shocked when i started to
look at those curves over
basically four months because i realized
my low points were
at 10 o'clock in the night and i thought
i would be most creative then
so i started to look at my behavioral
patterns and guess what that was where i
was watching
youtube videos so i immediately killed
that and changed my behavior and the
second thing i did was
i realized where am i most creative well
that was when i was out swimming
i called it the water moment and i think
we all have a water moment it's a time
in
a lot in our life during the day where
we're more creative than other times
and those moments are super precious
here's the issue
as you and i are stuck behind sumo
microsoft teams or whatever
we give after to a linear way of
thinking
and the linear thinking is basically
killing our creativity because there's
no
way we can be creative in a linear
environment where we spoon fit with
information all the time
so what i learned was when i'm swimming
in a pool
i actually become more creative it's
almost like a meditation
and i'd literally would have a pad in
the end of the pool and write
my next book in the pool and of course
everyone
looking at me thought i was completely
nuts
okay but it helped me to
you know spark my creativity and then i
i learned my gosh
i'm still not creative enough and that's
where i got rid of the phone
so three years ago i skipped my phone
all together and
it was a wonderful experience and i
actually wanted to do it only for one
year
but i still don't have a phone and that
has helped me to be extraordinary
creative
in moments of time where i normally
wouldn't be creative
i think as you know boredom is the
foundation for creativity
because it allows you to reflect and
connect
dots you normally wouldn't do as soon as
you
this is our world today i mean as soon
as you sit in a car as soon as you sit
in the lounge as soon as you
wait in a restaurant and your guest is
not showing up the first thing you do is
to grab your phone
and do something with the phone anything
so you don't look like a complete loser
right
and so we put this shield up in front of
ourselves
and because we do that we don't see
details
right we don't meet people anymore we
never get bored
and what i learned was i was never bored
i would squeeze
every two minutes out of my day into the
phone where i will
hammer away on messages like a
jackhammer um
and i mean in the end of the day i would
feel fulfilled because i've
emptied my out box right now it's kind
of this
almost like a game and i will feel
equally empty
and then i will get another 250 emails
back with people replying back to me and
that was really not common sense
so i think long story short is through
the process of getting through the phone
through the process of mapping down my
day through the process
of swimming i managed to recover what i
lost
and and i had a word i was working again
so it's a very
you could say calculated way to save
myself
from just being seduced by all the
wonders of technology
which is around us today which on one
hand is wonderful
and on the other hand is killing all
creativity
now that i love when something can be
boiled down to a process
i get very excited um i like that a lot
do you have advice for people
that have lost their job um you know a
lot of people are saying hey start that
business you've always wanted to try and
i think that'll work for some people but
do you have like
is there um it's a moment of tremendous
disruption that usually comes with
emotional distress
do you have a process for people
navigating that and sort of bringing the
emotional distress into a usable
position
absolutely but i want to put this in in
perspective tom if that's okay
um so i fundamentally believe we have
three bank accounts
you have the bank account where you
receive your salary
learn and you have the bank account
where you build your brand um a lot of
people are seduced
and somewhat fooled by believing when
you receive money on your first bank
account
the job is done in my opinion it's just
a way to getting by
if you do not save money up in your
brand account
you are as vulnerable as every day
because
increasingly the idea of a fixed job or
a lifetime job forget about it
and if you do not save money in the
learning bank
you will be stalled you will be still
you know fixed into an environment and a
way of thinking where you can't adopt to
other changes around you
so the first advice is before you even
lose your job that is to build your
brand and what you will notice is i know
i'm i have a good friend he works at
google and i back then in the days i
helped him to get the job at google and
it was very interesting because when he
finally got his job he said
he never had so many friends before in
his life they all wanted to be friends
with him and really thought it was
because of him and i said to him
you're a wonderful person everyone loves
you but the reality is you have a logo
on your business card
and the day that logo is gone you're no
one
unless you build your brand and i think
a lot of people are fooled by
whatever comedy they work with and think
that is their brand is not
so the first advice is to build your own
personal brand that comes back to the
one word you and i talked about
even for people that don't want to be on
instagram or
youtube or facebook absolutely
absolutely because
it's a little bit like a lifetime
insurance now i mean most people have an
insurance for their health
right but what is your insurance that
you actually can pay for that health
well that is your brand i mean if you're
fired what is the next step for you to
survive
in the space which is so incredibly
competitive
and what's right now think about this
this is so interesting
i don't believe that the idea of a
cooperation will
exist in the future and i'll tell you
why
because corporations is a gathering of a
lot of people
and people work at that company for two
reasons they either work there because
and they earn a lot of money with
credibility or they do it because it's
an amazing culture there's a lot of
other reasons but that could be two of
them
um well where did the culture go as we
all stuck behind the screen
it's kind of gone right so it's now it's
only money
and because people are being fired left
right and center
that is even not firm right so i think
what's happening is that
right now the entire world is going
through a global synchronization which
are teaching them how
to be independent of their corporate
jobs because if i communicate with you
dear employer
or if i have five employers it doesn't
really matter it's still a link
right in the end of the day so i think
what we're going to see right now is
millions of freelancers which really
have realized i don't want to have
a job i want to have multiple jobs and
when that happens
everyone will start to say how do i get
business and then you realize i need a
brand
so i think long story short yes you need
to have your own personal brand no
matter who you are
it doesn't mean you have to have your
own television show or podcast or
anything
but it means that you're building your
network in a very
strategic way so if you kicked out here
you have someone there
or you only today you may only have one
egg in the basket but you have three
eggs white
so answering the first part of your
question
first build your brand now if you're
losing your job now
in my opinion go the opposite way
i think the answer is not to
necessarily desperately try to get into
the industry where you came from
it actually maybe this is your wake-up
call to redefine
what you want to do and have a new
chapter written in your book rather than
just
flicking a page that's the first start i
guess but
my advice to everyone is to say
find out what is your core skill
and what is the one thing you want to
combine it with which no one has done
before
okay so i'll give you an example of
um a a girl in new york city which were
but very frequently on television at
today's show
and she was a sex expert expert in
how to have better sex which is a very
special niche
and it was very difficult for her to
migrate out of that space
you know once you stand with that and
she was a wonderful person really
clever she couldn't handle it i said to
her so what is your expertise well her
expertise is of course to understand
human beings
yes and stress right yeah and then i
said breathing
is another aspect why don't we take that
psychology and breathing
because stress is part of breathing and
if you don't breathe
properly you actually are out of the
game and guess what she became one of
the largest breathing experts in the
world
handling stress so she migrated from one
position to another
by combining two things in a new way and
that's really my
my my advice and the way you do that is
to ask others
for advice you're too close to the
forest to see the tree right
taking that idea of what's something
else that i could do that makes me a
more
unique commodity um you know at a time
of great disruption and this is
something i'm always trying to get
people to understand so there's this
quote from kobe bryant that i
moves me to my core which is booze don't
block dunks
meaning you can get so good at something
people can't stop you from doing it even
if they wanted to
if you're just able to bring that much
value to something you're going to be
able to score
and you know when i think about a time
of
such difficulty and disruption right now
what you're talking about is the way
through you have to get so good at
something unique that people care about
that you're able to market yourself you
know paying into those other bank
accounts that you're talking about
my obsession is getting people to
understand the importance of
transferring potential into actual skill
set
which is something i don't think nearly
enough people do
and i want to talk about some of the
things that are causing some of these
mechanisms to break in society you've
mentioned empathy
you mentioned technology and now
speaking of bringing two things together
you talk very eloquently about how
technology
is disrupting empathy i'm just curious
like what do you think is going to be
the result
of what's happening now where covet is
making people paranoid to
touch to come into contact
how do we begin to
sort of heal that distance that's coming
between us so that people can
create this new path forward
i first of all sadly think that what's
happening right now the biggest
um victim of what's happening because of
covet 19
is not going to be the
thousands and thousands of people dying
from
obtaining this disease i think it's
going to be from depression
and here's the reason why an experiment
was conducted with mice
and they were put into two different
control groups the first group
were touched petted every second hour by
the scientists
and the second was not tossed at all and
after around two
weeks the second pair of mice
basically half of them were dead and
what we learned from the experiment is
really that the more
you are in the tactile connection with
others the more you thrive
remember the biggest organ on our body
is the sense of touch
we were i was involved in elderly
senior people in japan where i was asked
by the japanese government to help
turn around a very sad trend in japan
which were the life expectancy going
down
and they've had the highest life
expectancy in the world
but what we realized again by me being a
senior person certainly living in senior
homes
in japan to understand how it is to be
98 years old
what i learned was no surprisingly
that they were never touching anyone and
that was because all the people they
knew
were dead um so in the best japanese
style of course
they came up with a robot um
a japanese robot dressed as a seal
where the seniors could actually pet and
touch the robot
and as i'm not sure if it's horrifying
or intriguing as this sound
it literally increased the life
expectancy and
and people's happiness level because you
want to toss coming back to the
conversation we've had previously
so that is the first um insight i want
to share because i do
think that three things are missing
during the pandemic the first one
is a stimulation of our tactile
sensation the second thing
is a lack of purpose why am i here
what am i doing what is my future going
to look like
um and i think it's incredibly important
for people to
realize that you through your life have
to
um adopt transformations into the way
you live
let me explain that for a second this is
a fascinating theory tom i think you'll
love it
um what i've learned is that
transformations
can change your perception of time and
make you live longer
and i'm not kidding um so i learned that
when i worked with swiss international
airlines which is a major european
airline company
and as i was a cabin crew member on the
plane you know
my role is to be different roles here i
i sort of learned how disturbed all the
cabin crew members were by the fact that
they never received information from the
ground
so i said how often do you guys receive
information well once a month at best
then i went down on ground and i worked
and cabin i worked at
at the headquarters and i asked them how
often do you send information up in the
cloud
and they said every week i said you must
be kidding they're saying every month
and i realized that perception is
changing depending on how many
transformations you go through
now if you have a lot of transformations
going on in your life i am coming to new
country a new city
whatever it is time goes slower
if you have no transformations in your
life time goes faster and that's a
reason why if you were to visit your
grandmother
if she's still around you will notice
that even though she sits in the same
chair
day in and day out she's saying to tom
my god time is going fast
and you are laughing and you think it's
kind of weird because it goes really
slow
when you look at it all right and so
this is the
the theory of transformation the reason
why people
when they've been stuck behind the
screens are losing their sense of
purpose one of the reasons why is
suddenly you feel my god time is flying
and i lost a whole month now and you
kind of almost get a midlife crisis
in a mini format going on here and then
of course you ask yourself
what am i going to do with my life when
it goes so fast so this is the second
thing the loss of of purpose
and i think the third thing is that we
are a social creature creatures and i
think a lot of people are realized
that they they don't have friends you
have a lot of likes
you have a lot of followers you have a
lot of you know superficial
conversations
online but are they really your friends
i think they've stimulated you
as were they your friends but in reality
it never got deep inside
those three factors have been completely
emptied
so when you go out in the real world now
after covet 19 hopefully it's over soon
you will notice you'll have to go on a
detox you cannot just jump out of this
and
the best way for me to illustrate that
is what do they have to do he talks from
they have to detox from the fact that
they've been sitting inside a prison
at home stuck behind their doors and
let me tell you a story about that and
it's about chickens
i'm sure you're familiar with my chicken
story here right but an experiment was
done with chickens they were put inside
the cage
stocked into the case for half a year
and one day they were let out in the
beautiful green grass and the sun was
shining and the birds were singing
and the chickens went straight out and
after
30 seconds straight back in again and i
call that the chicken
cage syndrome and we will experience the
chicken
cage syndrome in a big way people would
be
hesitant to move out people will feel
i don't i'm not comfortable about going
back
i feel scared i feel anxiety i feel fear
and we have seen that phenomenon
happening with astronauts
when they come from long journeys and
they're coming back on ground
even though they're talking about how
much they want to go into nature they
want to see the
you know nature they want to hear the
birds all this stuff
the first thing they do is to go back on
the couch and lie there for free month
and not leaving the home and that is the
biggest risk we have right now
that people will not be able to have
enough
personal drive to get out of the routine
which is so comfortable
and so lazy that they cannot get back on
the wheel again right
yeah the that is your insight into
depression being the real thing that
people need to be worried about is
something that
i grow increasingly concerned about
how do we right now it's still a
question mark as to when we'll really be
able to go back out
exacerbated by the the chicken cage
effect
how can people right now do something to
feel i mean i suppose touch is out
unless we have a robot seal lying around
or you have a pet
at the beginning of this i was
encouraging people look if you don't
have anybody around you do a zoom call
read a book anything that makes you feel
connected to someone or something else
is there an answer to touch like is
there something that we can do to sort
of
fake that
well you know as you may be aware of i'm
a huge fan of lego
um i think use your hands um
we have lost connections with our hands
um you know i worked for lego the first
time as you know i got a job at lego
when i was 12 but
later on in my career at lego we started
to
investigate what the consequences
are of the virtual world on kids and
their behavior
and in the beginning i did an experiment
where i asked kids to
basically circulate or circulate a pen
between your fingers like what i'm
showing the viewers right now
um and kids could do it with ease
after four years as the digital
environment took over their lives that
dropped it straight away
so what we noticed was that their
ability to castiglate or the motor
skills
started to disappear the best thing you
could do is to maintain that that's
like a muscle it's like a muscle with
anything else the more you do it the
better you become in it
so i would definitely work on
craftsmanship
get that back use your hands with nature
with soil with plants with wood
with puzzle bricks no anything
uh which can stimulate that that that
will definitely be my first step
the the second thing i probably would do
is to create a list of dreams
now i have a philosophy which is crazy
it may be it's very similar to you as i
could imagine my philosophy is if i
one day go over the road and there's a
car coming and
hitting straight into me and i'm flying
up in the air and i have
supposedly two seconds to rewind my
whole life backwards
i want to end my last sentence by saying
um i did everything i wanted to do now i
was super lucky that six years ago i was
able to say that
but in my drive to get to that point i
really created milestones in my life
and my milestones were not necessarily
rational stuff like this is the amount
of money i want to earn
and as tom peters once said no one
has written i earned 5.2 million dollars
and is written on my thumb stone
right um i think what you have to ask
yourself is what are the emotion
emotional footsteps you want to create
behind yourself and by that i mean
um if you are thinking about clues you
can leave
i'll i'll i'll tell you what one of my
mentors are
i always want to do one good thing for a
person every day
and i literally do that and
that has given me a lot of great
fulfillment
in life i don't necessarily expect
people to give me stuff i actually
expect to give things to people and then
maybe it comes back maybe it doesn't
it's not like this quick per pro
type of setup which we've increasingly
seen happening in the western world
and do you know what i've learned
through this time and i'm pretty sure
you're exactly the same
the more you give the more you get it's
just very strange
both knowledge wise but also experience
wise and you meet new people you connect
with people in different ways you've
never done before
so as you're stocked behind that screen
try to go out and help others and do you
know what will happen
as you help others even though you have
almost nothing
yourself that fulfillment you get there
will give you the fuel to get out of the
mess you are in
because suddenly you will see your life
in a perspective
and it's quite often that lack of
perspective which makes you feel sorry
for
yourself you feel you're lost you feel
you can't get back on track
but when you see other people in a very
miserable situation as well
it for some strange reason gives you the
self-esteem you need
to get out of where you are right yeah i
wish i could remember who said this but
it goes right along those lines
um let's say you're in a dark place
you've got nobody
because of what's going on or just in
general you've got nobody in your life
and the person said look you may not
have anybody that wants you
but there are people that need you and i
thought whoa that's so powerful
where if you are feeling lost abandoned
that
that you know for whatever reason the
the your life is full of
heartbreak the fact that there are
people out there that
need your help is is really pretty
extraordinary for
an animal that is such a social creature
yeah i find that really really
interesting
um speaking of being social creatures
your new book the ministry of common
sense
uh what on earth i think people are
going to
really resonate with the book you talk
primarily in a work context so basically
hey everybody i bet you can agree that
as us humans come together and put more
and more rules common sense kind of goes
out the window
what prompted you to write the book and
what do you
what does a return to common sense look
like
i have seen so many
people would absolutely hate going to
work
one of the most frequent phrases i've
heard in the elevator
is how are you doing i'm surviving
and then saying it like this and it's a
stand-up phrase
i mean imagine this that every day
that is your view of life and
as i started to investigate into
companies and the way they deal with
employees
and deal with politics and bureaucracy
and red tape are realized
this is a global pandemic global
pandemic is bureaucracy
it is lack of common sense its stupidity
is going on
so and this is a true story i actually
um
were doing a workshop with one of the
larger banks around
and at two o'clock in the morning it was
one of these late
workshops this girl comes up to me and
she says
martin i hate working here i'm resigning
and i said you can't do that on my what
i will be fired too
she said i said let's let's sit down and
let's have a chat about this so we had a
chat and she said there's no common
sense here
i said so why don't we do something
about it she said well why don't we
start up the ministry
of common sense and we literally did
that and the ministry of common sense
was designed to remove or vacuum clean
one stupidity at a time away from the
organization now within the first year
the vacuum cleaned 2 000 stupidities out
of this bank
but what was really striking about all
this stuff was there was a direct
correlation between the numbers of
stupidities
and the number of pain people felt
inside the organization
and so what i realized was we need to
bring common sense back
so i decided to write the book because
really there is no common sense in this
world let me give you an example
the other day i was sitting on a plane
uh flying and
um even before we took off this
person is saying welcome on board on
this
flight bound for for cyric i'm
i will regret to inform you guys that
all cabin service has been completely
suspended on the entire flight
because of code 19 and he said
um and by the way you're not allowed to
use the laboratories in front
at all it's reserved for the cabin crew
you are only allowed to use the
laboratories in the back
now let me just be clear there's 172
passengers on board on this flight
and there's one lavatory in the back so
everyone has to pass by
32 rows or 34 rows or whatever it is
where they end up on a long in a long
line waiting for the lavatory while they
smell this beautiful freshly brewed
toilet smell mixed up with a faint smell
of corona
i mean this is in my opinion the
ultimate stupidity and not only that on
the same flight we had these track and
trace forms
just in case you have kobe 19 and and
don't get me wrong
i believe in covet 19 that's not that
but what i don't believe in is is this
form where you had to fill it out
and the first question on the form is
have you been in close proximity to
anyone
within the last 24 hours and the only
thing you have to do is just to look to
your right
because there's a passenger sitting
there and the second thing is if you
want to fill out the form
well guess what you need to have a pen
people don't have pens anymore
so the stewardess is now lending one pen
to the entire plane
so we can all fill out the form and the
second question is
have you tossed any anything anyone has
tossed over the last two hours
that is the essence if you of nonsense
so i decided to write this book because
i do feel the world has
turned completely stupid and we need to
save ourselves from
insanity so that's the reason why really
i started this process right so
how how is it that we seem to move
inextricably towards lacking common
sense like if if all of us as
individuals can look at and go this is
so stupid how is it that it becomes the
norm
well remember there's two words making
the word common sense
that's common and there's sense common
means we're seeing the world from the
same point of view
sense is something you attach to it in
the end
so the common part comes back to what we
told about earlier
was is empathy because common sense and
empathy
are directly correlated if i
see the world the same way as you do
common sense become
common right but if i am seeing the
world
completely differently and we've seen
that with the election as a good example
last year where in the during the
election round what happened was that
you had such a fragmented picture
of voters views of the reality that
there was no common sense suddenly just
collapsed
in front of our eyes and that is also
happening in companies
it's happening in our private lives
because
this this fragmentation is so big so
common sense is directly linked with
empathy
and as you know empathy is disappearing
and one of the
scary things of why it's disappearing
is because of botox i mean it's
something i discovered
when i started to do the research study
that we all
send micro expressions to each other
kind of you know indirectly saying what
the situation
is and i'm sure you tried it when you
walk into a room
and you're saying god that's a bad
feeling in here well
is that because the smell was bad no
it's because you can see those
mini clues now once you take botox
as an example and we've seen experiments
done with mothers
using botox and literally the connection
between the mother
and the baby is actually this is
disconnecting
and babies can't relate to the mothers
and these are several
clinical studies conducted on this topic
now as that happens
in our society really really fast sorry
didn't interrupt you but can you tell
the story about
um what happens when you instruct the
mother not to make any expression while
she's holding her child
this is so interesting it is it is
really horrifying to look at and and all
of you guys you can look it up
online straight away but literally
there's several experiments where
mothers
are sitting like a stone with a stone
face and within
30 seconds the baby will scream and get
a tantrum and can simply
not connect with the mother because
there is no micro expressions
this is our secret tool and this is
what's so
fascinating but also very frightening
that you have to remember the reason why
we as human beings are around and
are the most powerful of all species
kind of sadly what we are right the
reason why
is because we evolved our brains and had
a third layer to our brain which
is enabling us to have empathy why
because that helped us to put ourselves
in the shoes
of that polar bear or whatever it is
and see the world from their point of
view and counter the attack before it
happens
this is the reason why we are adapting
to situations within the same generation
or the next generation through our dna a
polar bear will take
15 generations before it adopts to an
environmental situation
now guess what empathy is fading out of
our lives now so what made us so strong
we are destroying right now because
we're so
centered around seeing the world from
our own personal point of view
so this is the reason why common sense
is disappearing
in organizations in our private life in
our
just in our existing and and that's the
reason why i felt this is
time to raise this as a debate and have
a conversation around it because if no
one is doing it
i'm petrified of that we get down a
track
where um ai and where algorithms
are running this show and we are
catering for what
that want rather than that's catering
for what we want
and it's already happening now you can
see that with the election
you can see that if you are as me a
writer
you had to write the article using
certain words or else
seo will not pick it up i mean it's
ridiculous how
we adopt to technology and not the
opposite way
so and that's where we lose that's where
we lose common sense because certainly
technology
is not catering for what's common sense
it's catering for what is easiest for
the programmer to do right
all right so let's start walking through
then some of the solutions so you've
talked about
them a little bit so we've obviously got
legitimate
walk a mile in their shoes which you
have done and i would say
is probably a little impractical as
scale amazing for you
and what you do but going to you know
saudi arabia and actually wearing a
burqa and walking around and seeing how
people are being treated
is powerful but you know not everybody's
going to be able to do that
you got rid of your phone so the way
that we put that shield up like you said
and engrossed ourselves in technology so
we could break that addiction
um what are some other things that we
can do to not
let empathy disappear
well i think the first thing from a
personal point of view you need to ask
your
yourself an important question which is
which part of your job would you like to
kill or eliminate what are the most
frustrating things you have
in your life which you want to get rid
of that's the first thing
and once you re write up that list you
should almost create a spreadsheet
right and on the spreadsheet you will
have two factors one is shouldn't
and one is don't and then on the top you
have shoot
and do i'm showing it for your viewers
right now so they can see the model very
simple
for anybody on the podcast we've got a
four quadrant thing here
um that's sort of breaking down the
things that he just laid out
exactly so the first trick you do is you
start to see the world from
outside in and you ask yourself what
should i do or what
don't i do and these are things where
you write down you say you know what
that's a waste of time
one of the things as you know i realized
was i was spending
one and a half hour on youtube every
night it became kind of a ritual for me
and i realized that's a waste of time i
was not even learning anything
had i learned something it would have
been different right so
that was don'ts right and i had a lot of
other stupid habits i wrote down there
so that's the first thing you do
the second so this is more this is less
about um
fighting the deterioration of empathy
and more about just making sure that you
don't have
a lack of common sense in your own life
that's how it sounds am i missing
that's right yes that's the first thing
you do once you do that you then ask
okay what things am i doing right now
with i want to
improve which can be better and the last
thing you say to yourself is which
things would i like to keep was a good
once you map those things down what
you're going to realize
now is if you are unlucky that at least
60 percent of what you are placing on
that chart is in the bottom
it is what i shouldn't do or what i
don't do
it's what i call park and eliminate
things which
is something i do which is painful and
that's why you had to
turn that around and say to yourself
gosh
this is really a lot of waste of time so
the first thing you can ask yourself is
why am i watching all these youtube
videos what's the reason why
okay and the answer would be for me this
is my replacement of a smoking break
or of a coffee break right so what is
going on there i'm saying
well i kind of want my mind to wander
away and then i'm saying okay is that
really the best solution to this or
should i find something else and what i
found
was literally that i had just as an
enjoyable moment when i was jumping into
the pool okay
so i basically just killed it and i did
it exactly the same time in the night
i went to the pool and that actually
stopped me
from falling into the youtube hall and
guess what i've created ideas during
that period and i actually are
exercising at the same time
so what i'm asking you to do is to do a
due diligence of your own life
and find out how many stupidities you're
doing and then
to turn that around to things you want
to improve and
once you want to strength and this is
actually helping you
to get your life back on track and in my
opinion
is bringing back common sense because
it's not common sense that i sit
in front of a screen seven hours a day
for work
and then i go home and guess what i'm
looking at youtube now for two hours on
top of it
that's not common sense if you ask me
right so do you have a prescription for
people
you live a very um extreme life so
you're on a plane in a normal year
you're on a plane 300 days out of the
year you're living in other people's
homes to watch their behavior
looking at that small data like you said
don't have a phone
um i imagine you do more than just limit
your
youtube time so are there is there like
a set of instructions that you have for
people
do this think like this let's hear it
what's that
leads to the ideal life i think first of
all
all of us has become so addicted to the
phone that we believe we can't live
without it
i can give you a very simple information
here
you can live without it and you're not
going to die
but you probably can't do what i did
because it's not easy
so here's what i would recommend you to
do
i would recommend you to say if i live
without the phone just for four hours on
sunday
can i do that and you take four hours
four hours out of your day and you spend
time with
no with something else what you will
notice is that you will have withdrawals
you want to have the fix of the phone
it would be horrifying and you have a
lot of anxiety going on but after some
time
you actually can live without that for
four hours now here's the next trick
the next trick is now you're going to
communicate to the world three things
you're going to communicate to the world
what you're going to change
more with that phone from now on two for
how long
time you're going to do it and three
what you're going to celebrate once you
have achieved that goal
and the trick is to say to everyone you
can do you know why
because then they will keep you
accountable for it
so then you're saying you know what
weekends of
phones off that's it why should you say
that
you may say to yourself i'm really happy
for my phone
well i need to ask you a question then
and the question is
if i can prove that your creativity
levels are going down i can prove that
your mood
is directly correlated with the amount
of time you spend
on the phone and by the way if you have
children that they will learn from you
which is to be glued on the phone as
well that means they will watch
half of their life through a screen
rather than through reality is that
a bit sad in fact i met an
author the other day he wrote a book
about the phone usage
and he said to me when i asked him why
did you write the book he said you know
what
my daughter came up to me she was six
years old and she said
dad who do you love the most me or the
phone
and that is for me an essential insight
about
our addiction to the phone right now i
can't
tell you the number of times i've seen
wonderful people
experiencing the most amazing things on
planet earth and the only thing they do
is to film it
because that's more important to see
through the screen than actually
experience it
and be present and here's the
consequence of that
the consequence of that is and i'm i'm
on a roll now to stop me tom if it's too
much
but the consequence of that is that we
are never present
the issue is that we are storing our
emotions
in a cloud and the best example of that
is one of my employees
which recently had his girlfriend at a
dinner
and she went to the bathroom she
disappeared for 20 minutes
came back and then she flicked through
the phone and he by coincidence saw some
of the photos on the phone
and realized he shot 65 selfies
at the toilet and he said to her why and
she said because i know
in five minutes you're going to break up
with me and i want to preserve the last
time
we had together so what's happening now
is
i'm starring in that's the reason why we
take selfies we store
emotions through selfies so when people
are depressed they go through to the
selfies and look at the photo where
they're good looking
they stole them in the cloud our entire
photo album
is stored in a cloud where people now
are submitting wills
so if their husband is dying the whole
life will not disappear
in a cloud i mean do you really want to
live a life where
i'll give another example a recent study
are showing that we do not have memory
in coding anymore
that means if i ask you a question this
is using fmri
if i ask you a question tom the first
thing the brain is doing now is not to
search for the answer
do you know what it does it goes
straight to an answer which is called
google
about kidding it literally says i'm
going to search for this
so what i'm encouraging people to say is
to detox from the phone
it is to have these small milestones of
life without it
and then you will notice that your
memory encoding will come back
you will be more present you'll be more
creative and actually you will
get a stronger sense of purpose in your
life
martin that is uh that's amazing
uh where can people engage with you not
that now i want to encourage people to
go
into the cloud to find you but uh your
books are
incredible i can i can already tell
people that but um
where should they go if they want to
hear more of this
listen just go to to my social channels
martinlindstrom.com is my ul
you can find me on linkedin it's called
lindstrom company
you can find me on twitter that's martin
lindstrom or on facebook
again that's martin lindstrom and of
course you just go on amazon and type in
my name
and and there hopefully you will find a
book which you think is um
is aligned with your way thinking right
i love it man
guys you will be richly rewarded for
looking him up
reading the books they are incredible
they are fun to read
tremendous insights in fact martin one
thing i'm going to take away from this
that i didn't see coming i don't
remember ever coming across before is
your idea of emotional footprints what
are the emotional footprints you want to
leave behind
that really hit me man i dig that a lot
guys you will find that and a whole lot
more when you dive into him
and speaking of emotional footprints and
other amazing things if you haven't
already
be sure to subscribe and until next time
my friends be
legendary take care hey everyone there's
no way to build an empowering mindset or
get ahead in business without
constantly learning and accessing new
information and today
i want to share with you guys my secret
weapon in the battle to learn new things
and get ahead
blinkist blinkist is for anyone who
cares about learning but doesn't have a
lot of time
blinkus takes the key ideas and insights
from over 4
000 non-fiction bestsellers in more than
27 categories
and gathers them together in 15-minute
text and audio explainers
that help you understand more about the
core ideas use the blinks to get into a
topic quickly
find new topics to grow from or figure
out which books you want to spend more
time
reading and listening to more deeply
also they've teamed up with popular
podcast creators to blink
those for you too so you can get to the
heart of a podcast episode
fast you can use blinkist's shortcast to
quickly catch up on podcast episodes
you've missed
with high quality audio you can jump
right in on the go
during your commute at the gym around
the house or even download to listen
offline 15 million people are already
using blinkist to broaden their
knowledge in
27 non-fiction categories including
self-improvement personal growth
management
leadership and mindfulness and happiness
two books from their library that i've
listened to
and highly recommend are start with why
by simon sinek
and the power of habit by charles duhigg
right now
blinkist has a special offer just for
our audience go
to blinkist.com slash impact theory to
start your free
seven-day trial and get 25
off a blinkist premium membership that's
spelled
b-l-i-n-k-i-s-t
blinkist.com impact theory to get 25
off a blinkist premium membership and a
seven-day free trial
all right guys take care and be
legendary
both men and women cheat of course um
but often i'll see that
men aren't able to speak up um
and and part of it is this you know the
cultural messages that they get so men
will come in and they'll say to me like
you know
i've never told anyone this before